Toast study group (#1)
jackbsteinberg/std-toast: study-group/README.md

# Toast Study Group

This document compares the capabilities of various popular toast libraries.

## Background

> A toast is a UI element that provides valuable feedback to a user about the actions they perform on the web or their mobile device. This feedback can be core to the user experience of many applications, and many accomplished developers have written many libraries to address this need. The aim of this study is to assess which needs the existing solutions meet, which services they provide in common with each other, and what the levels of granularity are available in toast APIs.

Reviewer: I'm a big fan of semantic line breaks: https://sembr.org/

It would be great if you could use them. The reason I like them (that doesn't seem to be listed on that page) is that diffs are generally much easier to read (vs 1 line per paragraph or vs wrapping to 80 cols).

Author: Got it, I'll change what I have now and follow this going forward, thanks

## In Depth Studies
TODO: Update with links when the in-depth studies are written up

## Table of Comparison

> This table showcases the features that various popular toast libraries support. If there are any mistakes, please open a feature request to get it corrected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This table showcases the features that various popular toast libraries support. If there are any mistakes, please open an issue to get it corrected.
```

- `title`: header text to be displayed above the main message of the toast. 

- `message`: main text contents of the toast. 

- `timeout`: time period (usually in ms) after which the toast disappears.

- Close Button: dedicated button that closes the toast when clicked.

- Call To Action: button(s) displayed on the toast prompting user engagement.

- Callbacks: functions triggered when the toast enters or exits certain states.

- Events: JavaScript events triggered when the toast enters or exits certain states.

- `icon`: pictograph displayed with the toast.

- Progress Bar: element on toast displaying time remaining before timeout.

### Built-In Support
The Built-In Support establishes how a toast is defined and used, as well as what it's allowed to be used with. It consists of a collection of implementation details, patterns, and technologies that are supported by popular libraries.

> - Theme Support: offers built-in theming options, such as `success`, `info`, or `error`.

Reviewer: Does something capture custom theme support?

Author: That's a good question, the feature that best captures that is 'Global Configuration', which would allow you to create custom toast configurations and apply them to your toasts.

Some of the libraries marked for this category used global configs for creating custom themes, some used it for more general tweaks, but I figured they're similar enough to group them under the one field.

I'll add a note on 'Global Configuration' mentioning it.

Author: Example:

[Notyf Global Configurations](https://github.com/caroso1222/notyf#global-configuration)
```js
const notyf = new Notyf({
  duration: 1000,
  types: [
    {
      type: 'warning',
      backgroundColor: 'orange',
      icon: {
        className: 'material-icons',
        tagName: 'i',
        text: 'warning'
      }
    },
    {
      type: 'info',
      backgroundColor: 'blue',
      icon: false
    },
    ...
  ]
});

...

notyf.open({
  type: 'info',
  message: 'Send us <b>an email</b> to get support'
});
```

Author: Changed name to Global Custom Configuration, moved the location in Features, and clarified language

- Triggered in JS: a toast object is created in JavaScript, then invoked to trigger display to the DOM.

> - Component Pattern: a toast HTML component sits in the DOM to be used in the JavaScript.

Reviewer: This is unclear to me. Do you mean a HTML custom element?

Author: It's definitely a bit confusing. 

For 'Triggered in JS'  I was trying to describe that some libraries have you create and define your toast library in your JavaScript (regardless of if you inject it into an existing DOM element). 

For 'Component Pattern' I was trying to describe that some libraries will require you to create an element representing the toast that sits in the DOM, which is either completely configured or just a dummy element to call your toast object from JavaScript on. 

The two aren't necessarily mutually exclusive - you can be 'Triggered in JS' with or without 'Component Pattern, and vice versa. This is rather tricky to explain clearly, I'll change the language of both the explanation and feature which should hopefully make it more clear.

Author: Example:

[Polymer paper-toast](https://www.webcomponents.org/element/@polymer/paper-toast) - Triggered in JS ❌ Component Pattern ✅
```html
<paper-button on-click="openToast">Open Toast</paper-button>
<paper-toast id="toast" text="Hello world!"></paper-toast>
```
```js
openToast: function() {
  this.$.toast.open();
}
```

[SweetAlert2](https://sweetalert2.github.io/) - Triggered in JS ✅ Component Pattern ❌
```js
Swal.fire({
  type: 'error',
  title: 'Oops...',
  text: 'Something went wrong!'
});
```

Author: Renamed these to 'Configured / Created in JS' and 'Explicit Component Pattern' and clarified language.

# Toast Study Group

This document compares the capabilities of various popular toast libraries.

## Background

> A toast is a UI element that provides valuable feedback to a user about the actions they perform on the web or their mobile device.

Reviewer 2: "web or mobile device" is a bit of a strange dichotomy. Maybe just "while using an app" or similar, with no platform discussions.

Author: ```suggestion
A toast is a UI element that provides valuable feedback to a user about the actions they perform while using an app.
```

- Theme Support: offers built-in theming options, such as `success`, `info`, or `error`.

- Global Custom Configuration: support for global config objects defining custom themes / patterns, which can be applied to individual toasts.

- Configured / Created in JS: the toast object is set up and called to display using JavaScript.
    - Upon display this creates a new DOM element or injects the settings into an existing HTML element.

- Explicit Component Pattern: uses an element explicitly written into the HTML to display the toast when triggered.
    - This element can be configured, or left as a dummy element to inject configuration into.

- Permits Custom HTML: allows developers to write custom HTML templates, loaded in as children or passed as views.

- Display in Container: allows the toast to display within a container, the default being `body`.

- CSS Class Field: explicit field to pass in the CSS class or list of classes for styling the toast.

- Explicit Animation Support: library offers an `animation` or `transition` field which abstracts away writing animations.

> - Swipe / Drag: the toast can be swiped or dragged to be dismissed, an important cross-platform consideration.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what "an important cross-platform consideration" adds here.

Author: ```suggestion
- Swipe / Drag: the toast can be swiped or dragged to be dismissed.
```

Author: Very fair point, it just felt strange to me that it was shorter than the other lines I think 😅

> - Intuitive Positioning: the library provides built in values to place your toast on the `top/middle/bottom` of the `left/center/right`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Intuitive Positioning: the library provides built in values to place your toast on the `top/middle/bottom` or the `left/center/right`.
```

Author: Do you think it might be better as: 
```suggestion
- Intuitive Positioning: the library provides built in values to place your toast on the `top/middle/bottom` and the `left/center/right`.
 ```
since the vertical and horizontal positions are can be used together?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, that seems better!

- User Interaction Trigger: tracks when user has moused over the toast, and allows the developer to change behavior when they do.

### Policies
The Policies of a toast library are what it chooses to allow, forbid, and prioritize. 
It's the list of opinions about what a toast should be able to do.

> - Mentions Accessibility: library specifically mentions A11y, uses `aria`, or makes note of accessibility concerns (i.e. focus).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Mentions Accessibility: library specifically mentions A11y, uses `aria`, or makes note of accessibility concerns (e.g. focus).
```

(e.g. = for example, i.e. = in other words/that is)

    - **Note**: This was difficult to track, not tested comprehensively, and I could have made mistakes. Please create an issue if you notice an error.

- Default Times Out: the toast dismisses by default, unless otherwise specified.

- Allows Multiple: multiple toasts can be displayed at once, typically either by stacking or overlapping.

- Allows Duplicates: the same toast can be called and displayed multiple times simultaneously.

> - Newest on Top: an option to toggle if the newest toast will show up above or below the previous toasts.

Reviewer 2: This name is a bit confusing. Maybe it should be "Allows Newest on Bottom" or "Configurable Stacking" or similar? As phrased now it makes it sound like anything with an X here would _not_ show the newest on top.

Author: Definitely confusing, I rephrased it.

Author: changed language for 'Newest on Top' to 'Configurable Stacking'
